# Design Notes

## Accelerator Design Constraints / Decisions

- The Organization Management (root) account does NOT have any preventative controls to protect the integrity of the Accelerator codebase, deployed objects or guardrails. Do not delete, modify, or change anything in the Organization Management (root) account unless you are certain as to what you are doing. More specifically, do NOT delete, or change _any_ buckets in the Organization Management (root) account.
- While generally protected, do not delete/update/change s3 buckets with cdk-asea-, or asea- in _any_ sub-accounts.
- ALB automated deployments only supports Forward and not redirect rules.
- The Accelerator deploys SNS topics to send email alerts and notifications. Given email is not a secure transport mechanism, we have chosen not to enable SNS encryption on these topics at this time.
- AWS generally discourages cross-account KMS key usage. As the Accelerator centralizes logs across an entire organization as a security best practice, this is an exception/example of a unique situation where cross-account KMS key access is required.
- The Accelerator aggregates all logs in the log-archive account using Kinesis Data and Kinesis Firehose as aggregation tools where the logs could persist for up to 24 hours. These logs are encrypted with Customer Managed KMS keys once stored in S3 (ELB logs only support AES256). These logs are also encrypted in transit using TLS encryption. At this time, we have not enabled Kinesis at-rest encryption, we will reconsider this decision based on customer feedback.
- AWS Config Aggregator is deployed in the Organization Management (root) account as enablement through Organizations is simpler to implement. AWS Organizations only supported deploying the Aggregator in the Organization Management (root) account and not in a designated administrative account when we implemented this feature. We have a backlog item to update the code to move the Aggregator to the security account.
- An Organization CloudTrail is deployed, which is created in the primary region in the Organization Management (root) AWS account. All AWS account CloudTrails are centralized into this single CloudWatch Log Group. Starting in v1.1.9 this is where we deploy the CloudWatch Alarms which trigger for ALL accounts in the organization. Security Hub will erroneously report that the only account and/or region that is compliant with certain rules is the primary region of the Organization Management (root) account. We are working with the Security Hub team to rectify this situation in future Security Hub/Accelerator releases (resolved in Accelerator v1.5.0).
- Only 1 auto-deployed MAD in any mandatory-account is supported today.
- VPC Endpoints have no Name tags applied as CloudFormation does not currently support tagging VPC Endpoints.
- If the Organization Management (root) account coincidentally already has an ADC with the same domain name, we do not create/deploy a new ADC. You must manually create a new ADC (it won't cause issues).
- 3rd party firewall updates are to be performed using the firewall OS based update capabilities. To update the AMI using the Accelerator, you must first remove the firewalls and then redeploy them (as the EIP's will block a parallel deployment), or deploy a second parallel FW cluster and de-provision the first cluster when ready.
- When adding more than 100 accounts to an OU which uses shared VPC's, you must _first_ increase the Quota `Participant accounts per VPC` in the shared VPC owner account (i.e. shared-network). Trapping this quota before the SM fails has been added to the backlog.
- The default limit for Directory Sharing is 125 accounts for an Enterprise Managed Active Directory (MAD), a quota increase needs to be manually requested through support from the account containing the MAD before this limit is reached. Standard MAD has a sharing limit of 5 accounts (and only supports a small quota increase). The MAD sharing limit is not available in the Service Quota's tools.